---
title: "Theorems covered in MAS575 Combinatorics Spring 2017"
permalink: /2017/mas575-spring-2017/
description: Migrated from legacy IBS WordPress.
canonical_url: https://sangiloum.github.io/2017/mas575-spring-2017/
mathjax: true
categories:
  - kaist
  - math
---
This post will give an incomplete list of theorems covered in MAS575 Combinatorics Fall 2017. This post will be continuously updated throughout this semester. (Last update: April 5, 2017.)  
2017년 봄학기 MAS575 조합론 과목에서 다룬 정리들을 정리하였습니다. 빠진 것도 있습니다. 강의가 진행되면서 내용을 업데이트 하겠습니다.\\(\\newcommand\\abs\[1\]{\\lvert \#1\\rvert}\\newcommand\\F{\\mathbb F}\\newcommand\\rk{\\operatorname{rk}}\\newcommand\\per{\\operatorname{per}}\\)

  - Graham and Pollak (1971). Proof by Tverberg (1982)
      - The edge set $E(K\_n)$ of the complete graph cannot be partitioned into less than $n-1$ copies of the edge sets of complete bipartite subgraphs.
  - Lindström and Smet (1970).
      - Let $A\_1,A\_2,\\ldots,A\_{n+1}\\subseteq \[n\]$. Then there exist subsets $I$ and $J$ of $\[n+1\]$ such that \\\[ I\\cup J\\neq \\emptyset, I\\cap J=\\emptyset, \\text{ and }\\bigcup\_{i\\in I}A\_i =\\bigcup\_{j\\in J} A\_j.\\\]
  - Lindström (1993)
      - Let $A\_1,A\_2,\\ldots,A\_{n+2}\\subseteq \[n\]$. Then there exist subsets $I$ and $J$ of $\[n+2\]$ such that $I\\cup J\\neq \\emptyset$, $I\\cap J=\\emptyset$, and \\\[\\bigcup\_{i\\in I} A\_i=\\bigcup\_{j\\in J}A\_j\\text{ and }\\bigcap\_{i\\in I}A\_i=\\bigcap\_{j\\in J}A\_j.\\\]
  - Larman, Rogers, and Seidel (1977) **\[New in 2017\]**
      - Every two-distance set in $\\mathbb R^n$ has at most $\\binom{n+2}{2}+n+1$ points. (A set of points is a two-distance set if the set of distances between distinct points has at most two values.)
  - Blokhuis (1984) **\[New in 2017\]**
      - Every two-distance set in $\\mathbb R^n$ has at most $\\binom{n+2}{2}$ points.
  - Erdős (1963)
      - Let $C\_1,C\_2,\\ldots,C\_m$ be the list of clubs and each club has at least $k$ members. If $m\< 2^{k-1}$, then such an assignment of students into two lecture halls is always possible.
  - Erdős, Ko, and Rado (1961). Proof by Katona (1972)
      - Let $k\\le n/2$. Let $\\mathcal F$ be a $k$-uniform intersecting family of subsets of an $n$-set. Then \\\[|\\mathcal F|\\le\\binom{n-1}{k-1}.\\\]
  - Fisher (1940), extended by Bose (1949). Related to de Brujin and Erdős (1948)
      - Let $k$ be a positive integer. Let $\\mathcal F$ be a family on an $n$-set $S$ such that $|X\\cap Y|=k$ whenever $X,Y\\in \\mathcal F$ and $X\\neq Y$. Then $|\\mathcal F|\\le n$.
      - Corollary due to de Brujin and Erdős (1948): Suppose that $n$ points are given on the plane so that not all are on one line. Then there are at least $n$ distinct lines through at least two of the $n$ points.
  - Frankl and Wilson (1981). Proof by Babai (1988).
      - If a family $\\mathcal F$ of subsets of $\[n\]$ is $L$-intersecting and $|L|=s$, then \\\[|\\mathcal F|\\le \\sum\_{i=0}^s \\binom{n}{i}.\\\]
  - Ray-Chaudhuri and Wilson (1975). Proof by Alon, Babai, and Suzuki (1991).
      - If a family $\\mathcal F$ of subsets of $\[n\]$ is uniform $L$-intersecting and $|L|=s$, then \\\[|\\mathcal F|\\le \\binom{n}{s}.\\\] (A family of sets is \\emph{uniform} if all members have the same size.)
  - Deza, Frankl, and Singhi (1983)
      - Let $p$ be a prime. Let $L\\subseteq\\{0,1,2,\\ldots,p-1\\}$ and $|L|=s$.If  
        (i) $|A|\\notin L+p\\mathbb Z$ for all $A\\in \\mathcal F$,  
        (ii) $|A\\cap B|\\in L+p\\mathbb Z$ for all $A,B\\in \\mathcal F$, $A\\neq B$,  
        then \\\[|\\mathcal F|\\le \\sum\_{i=0}^s \\binom{n}{i}.\\\]
  - Alon, Babai, and Suzuki (1991)
      - Let $p$ be a prime. Let $k$ be an integer. Let $L\\subseteq \\{0,1,2,\\ldots,p-1\\}$ and $|L|=s$. Assume $s+k\\le n$. If  
        (i) $|A|\\equiv k \\notin L+p\\mathbb Z$ for all $A\\in \\mathcal F$,  
        (ii) $|A\\cap B|\\in L+p\\mathbb Z$ for all $A,B\\in \\mathcal F$, $A\\neq B$,  
        then \\\[|\\mathcal F|\\le \\binom{n}{s}.\\\]
  - Grolmusz and Sudakov (2002) **\[New in 2017\]**
      - Let $p$ be a prime. Let $L\\subseteq\\{0,1,\\ldots,p-1\\}$ with $|L|=s$ and $k\\ge 2$. Let $\\mathcal F$ be a family of subsets of $\[n\]$ such that  
        (i) $|A|\\notin L+p\\mathbb Z$ for all $A\\in \\mathcal F$ and  
        (ii) $|A\_1\\cap A\_2\\cap \\cdots \\cap A\_k|\\in L+p\\mathbb Z$ for every collection of $k$ distinct members $A\_1,A\_2,\\ldots,A\_k$ of $\\mathcal F$.  
        Then \\\[|\\mathcal F|\\le (k-1)\\sum\_{i=0}^s \\binom{n}{i}.\\\]
  - Grolmusz and Sudakov (2002) **\[New in 2017\]**
      - Let $\\abs{L}=s$ and $k\\ge 2$. Let $\\mathcal F$ be a family of subsets of $\[n\]$ such that \\\[|A\_1\\cap A\_2\\cap \\cdots \\cap A\_k|\\in L\\\] for every collection of $k$ distinct members $A\_1,A\_2,\\ldots,A\_k$ of $\\mathcal F$. Then \\\[|\\mathcal F|\\le (k-1)\\sum\_{i=0}^s \\binom{n}{i}.\\\]
  - Sperner (1928)
      - If $\\mathcal F$ is an antichain of subsets of an $n$-set, then \\\[ |\\mathcal F|\\le \\binom{n}{\\lfloor n/2\\rfloor}.\\\]
  - Lubell (1966), Yamamoto (1954), Meschalkin (1963)
      - If $\\mathcal F$ is an antichain of subsets of an $n$-element set, then \\\[ \\sum\_{A\\in \\mathcal F} \\frac1{\\binom{n}{|A|}}\\le 1.\\\]
  - Bollobás (1965)
      - Let $A\_1$, $A\_2$, $\\ldots$, $A\_m$, $B\_1$, $B\_2$, $\\ldots$, $B\_m$ be subsets on an $n$-set such that  
        (a) $A\_i\\cap B\_i=\\emptyset$ for all $i\\in\[m\]$,  
        (b) $A\_i\\cap B\_j\\neq\\emptyset$ for all $i\\neq j$.  
        Then\\\[\\sum\_{i=1}^m \\frac1{\\binom{|A\_i|+|B\_i|}{|A\_i|}} \\le 1.\\\]
  - Bollobás (1965), extending Erdős, Hajnal, and Moon (1964)
      - If each family of at most $\\binom{r+s}{r}$ edges of an $r$-uniform hypergraph can be covered by $s$ vertices, then all edges can also be covered by $s$ vertices.
  - Lovász (1977)
      - Let $A\_1$, $A\_2$, $\\ldots$, $A\_m$, $B\_1$, $B\_2$, $\\ldots$, $B\_m$ be subsets such that $|A\_i|=r$ and $|B\_i|=s$ for all $i$ and  
        (a) $A\_i\\cap B\_i=\\emptyset$ for all $i\\in\[m\]$,  
        (b) $A\_i\\cap B\_j\\neq\\emptyset$ for all $i\<j$.  
        Then $m\\le \\binom{r+s}{r}$.
      - Let $W$ be a vector space over a field $\\F$. Let $U\_1,U\_2,\\ldots,U\_m,V\_1,V\_2,\\ldots,V\_m$ be subspaces of $W$ such that $\\dim(U\_i)=r$ and $\\dim(V\_i)=s$ for each $i=1,2,\\ldots,m$ and  
        (a) $U\_i\\cap V\_i=\\{0\\}$ for $i=1,2,\\ldots,m$;  
        (b) $U\_i\\cap V\_j\\neq\\{0\\}$ for $1\\le i\<j\\le m$.  
        Then $m\\le \\binom{r+s}{r}$.
  - Füredi (1984)
      - Let $U\_1,U\_2,\\ldots,U\_m,V\_1,V\_2,\\ldots,V\_m$ be subspaces of a vector space $W$ over a field $\\F$. If $\\dim(U\_i)=r$, $\\dim(V\_i)=s$ for all $i\\in\\{1,2,\\ldots,m\\}$ and for some $t\\ge 0$,  
        (a) $\\dim(U\_i\\cap V\_i)\\le t$ for all $i\\in\\{1,2,\\ldots,m\\}$,  
        (b) $\\dim(U\_i\\cap V\_j)\>t$ for all $1\\le i\<j\\le m$,  
        then $m\\le \\binom{r+s-2t}{r-t}$.
  - Frankl and Wilson (1981)
      - The chromatic number of the unit distance graph of $\\mathbb R^n$ is larger than $1.2^n$ for sufficiently large $n$.
  - Kahn and Kalai (1993)
      - (Borsuk’s conjecture is false) Let $f(d)$ be the minimum number such that every set of diameter $1$ in $\\mathbb R^d$ can be partitioned into $f(d)$ sets of smaller diameter. Then $f(d)\> (1.2)^{\\sqrt d}$ for large $d$.
  - Mehlhorn and Schmidt (1982) **\[New in 2017\]**
      - For a matrix C, $2^{\\kappa(C)}\\ge \\operatorname{rank}(C)$. (Let $\\kappa(C)$ be the minimum number of rounds in order to partition $C$ into almost homogeneous matrices, if in each round we can split each of the current submatrices into two either vertically or horizontally. This is a parameter related to the communication complexity.)
  - Lovász and Saks (1993)
      - $\\kappa(C)\\le \\rk(C)$.
  -  ?
      - There exists a randomized protocol to decide the equality of two strings of length $n$ using $O(\\log n)$ bits.  
        The probablity of outputting an incorrect answer is less than $1/n$.
  - Dvir (2009) **\[New in 2017\]**
      - Let $f\\in \\F\[x\_1,\\ldots,x\_n\]$ be a polynomial of degree at most $q-1$ over a finite field $\\F$ with $q=\\abs{F}$ elements. Let $K$ be a Kakeya set. If $f(x)=0$ for all $x\\in K$, then $f$ is a zero polynomial.
      - If $K\\subseteq\\F^n$ is a Kakeya set, then \\\[\\abs{K}\\ge \\binom{\\abs{\\F}+n-1}{n} \\ge \\frac{\\abs{F}^n}{n\!}.\\\]
  - Ellenberg and Gijswijt (2017) **\[New in 2017\]**
      - If $A$ is a subset of $\\F\_3^n$ with no three-term arithmetic progression, then $\\abs{A}\\le 3N$ where \\\[N=\\sum\_{a,b,c\\ge 0; a+b+c=n; b+2c\\le 2n/3} \\frac{n\!}{a\! b\! c\!}.\\\]Furthermore $3N\\le o(2.756^n)$.
  - Tao (2016) **\[New in 2017\]**
      - Let $k\\ge 2$ and let $A$ be a finite set and $\\F$ be a field. Let $f:A^k\\to \\F$ be a function such that if $f(x\_1,x\_2,\\ldots,x\_k)\\neq 0$, then $x\_1=x\_2=\\cdots=x\_k$. Then the slice rank of $f$ is equal to $\\abs{\\{x: f(x,x,\\ldots,x)\\neq0\\}}$.
  - Erdős and Rado (1960) **\[New in 2017\]**
      - There is a function $f(k,r)$ on positive integers $k$ and $r$ such that every family of $k$-sets with more than $f(k,r)$ members contains a sunflower of size $r$.
  - Naslund and Sawin (2016) **\[New in 2017\]**
      - Let $\\mathcal F$ be a family of subsets of $\[n\]$ having no sunflower of size $3$. Then \\\[\\abs{\\mathcal F}\\le 3(n+1)\\sum\_{k\\le n/3}\\binom{n}{k}.\\\]
  - Alon and Tarsi (1992)
      - Let $\\F$ be a field and let $f\\in \\F\[x\_1,x\_2,\\ldots,x\_n\]$. Suppose that $\\deg(f)=d=\\sum\_{i=1}^n d\_i$ and the coefficient of $\\prod\_{i=1}^n x\_i^{d\_i}$ is nonzero. Let $L\_1,L\_2,\\ldots,L\_n$ be subsets of $\\F$ such that $|L\_i|\>d\_i$. Then there exist $a\_1\\in L\_1$, $a\_2\\in L\_2$, $\\ldots$, $a\_n\\in L\_n$ such that \\\[ f(a\_1,a\_2,\\ldots,a\_n)\\neq 0.\\\]
  - Cauchy (1813), Davenport (1935)
      - Let $p$ be a prime and let $A,B$ be two nonempty subsets of $\\mathbb{Z}\_p$. Then \\\[|A+B|\\ge \\min(p,|A|+|B|-1).\\\]
  - Dias da Silva and Hamidoune (1994). A proof by Alon, Nathanson, and Ruzsa (1995). Conjecture of Erdős and Heilbronn (1964).
      - Let $p$ be a prime and $A$ be a nonempty subset of $\\mathbb{Z}\_p$. Then \\\[ \\lvert\\{ a+a’: a,a’\\in A, a\\neq a’\\}\\rvert \\ge \\min(p,2|A|-3).\\\]
  - Alon (2000) **\[New in 2017\]**
      - Let $p$ be an odd prime. For $k\< p$ and every integers $a\_1,a\_2,\\ldots,a\_k,b\_1,b\_2,\\ldots,b\_k$, if $b\_1,b\_2,\\ldots,b\_k$ are distinct, then there exists a permutation $\\pi$ of $\\{1,2,\\ldots,k\\}$ such that the sums $a\_i+b\_{\\pi(i)}$ are distinct.
  - Alon? **\[New in 2017\]**
      - If $A$ is an $n\\times n$ matrix over a field $\\F$, $\\per(A)\\neq 0$ and $b\\in \\F^n$, then for every family of sets $L\_1$, $L\_2$, $\\ldots$, $L\_n$ of size $2$ each, there is a vector $x\\in L\_1\\times L\_2\\times \\cdots\\times L\_n$ such that \\\[(Ax)\_i\\neq b\_i\\\] for all $i$.
  - Alon? **\[New in 2017\]**
      - Let $G$ be a bipartite graph with the bipartition $A$, $B$ with $\\abs{A}=\\abs{B}=n$. Let $B=\\{b\_1,b\_2,\\ldots,b\_n\\}$. If $G$ has at least one perfect matching, then for every integer $d\_1,d\_2,\\ldots,d\_n$, there exists a subset $X$ of $A$ such that for each $i$, the number of neighbors of $b\_i$ in $X$ is not $d\_i$.
  - Erdős, Ginzburg, and Ziv (1961) **\[New in 2017\]**
      - Let $p$ be a prime. Every sequence $a\_1,a\_2,\\ldots,a\_{2p-1}$ of integers contains a subsequence $a\_{i\_1}$, $a\_{i\_2}$, $\\ldots$, $a\_{i\_p}$ such that $a\_{i\_1}+a\_{i\_2}+\\cdots a\_{i\_p}\\equiv 0\\pmod p$.
  - Alon, Friedland, and Kalai (1984) **\[New in 2017\]**
      - Every (multi)graph with average degree $\>4$ and maximum degree $\\le 5$ contains a $3$-regular subgraph.
  - ?
      - Let $G$ be an undirected graph. Let $d(G)=\\max\_{H\\subseteq G}\\frac{|E(H)|}{|V(H)|}$. Then there is an orientation of $G$ such that the outdegree of each vertex is at most $\\lceil d(G)\\rceil$.
  - Alon and Tarsi (1992)
      - A simple planar bipartite graph is $3$-choosable.
