---
title: "IBS DIMAG is hiring a postdoc; The IBS Discrete Mathematics Group (DIMAG) Postdoctoral Research Fellowship (Due: December 5, 2020)"
url: /2020/hiring/
canonical_url: https://sangiloum.github.io/2020/hiring/
featured_image: /legacy/2020/10/dimag-poster-square.png
featured_image_source: featured_media
categories:
  - hiring
  - ibs
---
The IBS Discrete Mathematics Group (DIMAG) in Daejeon, Korea invites applications for one postdoctoral research fellowship position.

URL: <https://dimag.ibs.re.kr/hiring/>

DIMAG is a research group that was established in December 1, 2018 at the [Institute for Basic Science](https://www.ibs.re.kr) (IBS), led by Prof. [Sang-il Oum](https://dimag.ibs.re.kr/home/sangil/). DIMAG is located at the headquarters of the Institute for Basic Science (IBS) in Daejeon, South Korea, a city of 1.5 million people. 

The position is available for individuals who are within the first five years after obtaining their Ph.D at the date of appointment or be expected to obtain a Ph.D within three months from the date of appointment. Successful candidates for postdoctoral research fellowship positions will be new or recent Ph.D.’s with outstanding research potential in all fields of **discrete mathematics** with emphasis on **structural graph theory, extremal graph theory, combinatorial optimization, matroid theory, or fixed-parameter tractable algorithms**.

This appointment is for two years, and the starting salary is no less than KRW 57,000,000. The appointment is one time renewable up to 3 years in total contingent upon the outstanding performance of the researcher. The expected appointment date is September 1, 2021. This is a purely research position and will have no teaching duties.

A complete application packet should include:

1.  AMS standard cover sheet (preferred) or cover letter (PDF format)
2.  Curriculum vitae including a publication list (PDF format)
3.  Research statement (PDF format)
4.  [Consent to Collection and Use of Personal Information (PDF file)](https://dimag.ibs.re.kr/cms/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/consent.pdf)
5.  At least 3 recommendation letters

For full consideration, applicants should email items 1, 2, 3, and 4 and arrange their recommendation letters emailed to **dimag@ibs.re.kr** by **December 5, 2020, Saturday**. 

Recommendations letters forwarded by an applicant will not be considered.

DIMAG encourages applications from individuals of diverse backgrounds.

*In the unlikely event of closing the Center, the employment contract will be terminated accordingly. For Korean citizens who have not yet completed their military duty: IBS는 병역특례지정기관입니다. IBS is a designated institute for alternative military service.*
